you
Wow my name is ron gilbert and up at
Lucasfilm in 1990 I did this little game
called monkey something like the island
holy monkey bladders it's a monkey
island back in the day when adventure
games were really in their prime they
were mostly fantasy games or RPGs and
monkey island took a different approach
I just wanted to create something the
markets gonna like its could sell a lot
of copies but I did not want to do
fantasy and that's when I kind of hit on
pirates x marks the spot mcallen is
about dining guy brush and he travels
deep in the Caribbean so this place
called melee island we don't know where
he came from we don't know how he got
there he just kind of appears hi my name
is guybrush threepwood and i want to be
a pirate that tells you everything you
need to know about that character and
what did you say your name was again guy
brush nose here from Wade 33 the spice
cake call me Squinkie ah there's the
three trials that he has to undergo
chaudhary thievery and he he treasure
hunter II there's a little love story
going on let's go to your place finish
your trials first I don't want you to be
preoccupied I feel this sudden urge to
complete the trials the secret Monkey
Island it was probably the first game
that I played that made me laugh out
loud sigh hello rocha.john that alone
made it a completely unique experience
from anything else
whoops the reason why adventure games
flourished for so many years is largely
due to Monkey Island right I'm off good
luck be sure to wear your mittens and
don't forget to write the Secret of
Monkey Island special edition is a
faithfully reimagined version of the
classic 1990 pc game you just don't know
when to quit do you the biggest
challenge in recreating the game was
convincing people it was a good idea
that's nearly 20 years old was 256
colors we were doing things like yell
and I think at its height it was like
five people working on the thing we
didn't have storyboards it had to be
built and a whole CGI machines had to
get geared up it was a lot easier to
come up with something funny and then
just run back to our desks and program
it in relax oh I'm ass all relieved we
took a look at all of the art all the
characters and we said how do we bring
this back to a new audience okay maggot
whip that short out and let's see what
you can do with it a first start was to
take this 8-bit medium and faithfully
re-envision the sets and live up to what
the fans would expect it's all becoming
clear I really wanted that classical
animation feel so when in their hand
painted over a hundred layouts over a 10
or 11 year span the character really
evolved I really wanted to develop the
character guy brush we did quite a few
development sketches of him in different
ways one of them being with a captain's
jacket we even did some sketches of him
with the beard said hey what would guy
bursts look like as an old man hey if
y'all lost baby yeah right
we went back and looked at the audio the
special effects in the music I can see
we've got a lot of work to do here I was
taking these old bleeps and bloops do it
and I had to rerecord everything for a
current generation as well as be
faithful to fans of the game from 20
years ago one of the big things was to
make sure that there were as many live
players as possible wow this is sounding
better and better all the time this is
dominique our motto is guybrush
threepwood take 452 we've gone back and
for the first time added brand nude
recorded dialogue with the original cast
from the curse of monkey island we
immediately knew that we wanted dominic
our motto Bacchus guy brush hi my name's
Gavroche street would and i want to be a
pirate dominic can best be described as
the ultimate Monkey Island fanboy you
keep hoping after a while you have all
the next one's gonna come my mom can't
wait to do the next one and after about
six or seven years it's like okay I'm
just I've given up all hope it's never
coming back and then get the email one
day it's like hey give me a call
something's going on it's like yes it's
coming back Laura our roof well let
Chuck great we got it he knows every
little detail and pretty much knew all
the dialogues because he loves it so
much very soon I'm saying it's because
he knows the game so well he just knows
what's going on and he's nailed it
in your pocket or are you just glad to
see us the game started with a
point-and-click interface with the mouse
and making it something that people
could play on a controller was the
biggest challenge the interface filled
almost half of the screen so we removed
that and put it in the background so it
would work well on any platform we just
couldn't say no to anything like if it's
cool and then the game deserves a tweeze
like it's got to go in i'm gonna put you
up against the machine yikes back in the
day would play the game until we got
stuck and obviously there was no
internet to help us along gee I don't
know how much longer I can hold my
breath we didn't want people to have to
break the experience so we created a
hint system integrated directly into the
game well that wasn't so hard the most
significant feature is the ability to
press a button no not the red button and
switch seamlessly from the new version
to the original version I have love for
the freaky pixels you can jump back and
forth and it's pretty cool we built our
game on top of the original code hey it
is identical to the classic version of
the game that we released I never get
tired of this view even if I have been
looking at it for 20 years now The
Secret of Monkey Island special edition
is a gateway to so much of the history
of gaming this is the game that made me
want to be a game designer when i joined
luca so what's in the back of my mind
that this is the company that made the
game that i loved since my childhood
it's a fresh new face on this fantastic
classic and I'm jazz man I can't wait to
get my hands on it I was like totally
blown away but how completely sure it
has remained to the original game you're
supposed to open that little door if
you've got the guts I think this will
get a lot of people a great opportunity
to experience that
ah I don't believe it you face the Beast
are feared all these years you are a
brave man after all I found the treasure
of merely island and all I got was this
stupid t-shirt Oh guy brush